The Uprising - an alternate history novel by AlexTheDacian

Disclaimer: This is a work of fiction. Character names, and incidents either are products of the author's imagination or are used fictiously. 
That being said, any resemblance to actual people, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHAPTER 1 - THE EXODUS

As Kishinev burned inside a radioactive mushroom, a surviving group of crewmen on the outskirts of the former capital of the Moldavian SSR 
climbed their self-propelled howitzers. On top of the lead 'Gvozdika', he saw it. The missile. The mushroom. The countless of deaths brought 
by a system he blindly followed. The agony, as his family could've not escaped the strike...

- No more... I've seen enough, he said to himself, as he rose from the roof of the 'Gvozdika' and climbed back into it.

Inside, a rough-looking crew, the men of Molot-1... Men... What a joke. They were barely in their 20s. The driver, Dima... He was 21 years old. 
The gunner, Oleg? 20 years old. The loader, Sergiu? Same... 20... 20 fucking years old.

- So young... robbed of their life... and for what? he asked himself. For the glory of the Party? For the glory of the Soviet Union?

Dima suddenly shouted and stopped the self-propelled howitzer.

- What are you doing you maniac? Oleg yelled, as he tended to his face. The rough stop threw him face-first into the gunner sight 
and now he was sporting a black eye.
- Yeah, what's the hold-up? calmly asked Sergiu.
- A pig just jumped in front of us! Dima gleefully responded as he turned around to the fellow crewmen and pointed. See?

To the crew's surprise, a commissar was outside. And a fat one at that. The commander, tired of this needless stop, opened the cupola and rose. 
To his surprise, it was Mirza, his unit's commissar. He survived the strike. That rat was still alive.

- Where are you going? the fat commissar asked. Who's the commanding officer among you? Who ordered you to move?

As the commander rose above the cupola, Mirza finally recognized him.

- Anatoly? Where are you taking Molot? 

- Just revving up the engines, Mirza. Nothing to worry about, calmly responded Anatoly as he climbed down from his 'Gvozdika'. 

Mirza, sensing that something was fishy, made a step backwards, his hand hovering above his holster. This wasn't the Anatoly that he remembered, 
the loyal and cheerful commander.

- Anatoly, I'm asking you again. What's the meaning of this? Where are you taking Molot?

In a split second, the tired commander pushed Mirza away. His fat bottom hitting the asphalt with a sound of a sack of potatoes. 
The commander slowly took the pistol out of his holster. His trusty Carpati pistol, a gun he received as a gift from another unit 
from Romania during the wargames of the past. He aimed it to Mirza's head. 

- What are you doing? yelled the commissar. Can't you see what has happened? The capitalists finally attacked! We can now start our great 
revolution in Europe! We can liberate the proletariat!

Anatoly, looked back to his howitzer. The crewmen were already on top of it, out of their posts. Behind them, Molot-2 and Molot-3. Same story. 
Crewmen out, and waiting. Watching his every move. His every decision. They waited for him to decide their future. Around them, in the affected buildings, 
civilians finally started to reveal themselves. Tired, scared, without hope... The commander looked back at Mirza, the rat cowering and 
trying to crawl away from him. 

- No more..., he whispered, and without even flinching, emptied the whole magazine into the fat bastard on the spot.

As the execution finally came to an end, there was a collective sigh from the crewmen. 

- Are we finally going to do this? an impatient Oleg yelled. 

The whole group turned towards him.

- What? Don't you give me that look. We all wanted to shoot Mirza. The fat fuck had it coming. 

Anatoly, holstered his pistol, and tured towards the civilians around his unit. 

- Pack whatever belongings you have. Send word to whoever you may find in this mess. Don't go towards the mushroom cloud, you'll get irradiated and 
you'll die very soon and very painfully. We are leaving. All of us. 

One child, holding on to her mother's leg, looked curiously to the commander, and with a squeaky voice, he shyly asked, the question that everyone 
wanted to ask:

- Where are we going? 

The commander, at first didn't answer. And why should he? There wasn't anything left for him here. There wasn't anything left for anyone here. 
There was nothing. But, as he looked towards the West, something deep inside him stirred up. Something that he thought he would never have. 
A flicker of hope. And with a slight smile on his face, he turned towards the child and finally answered: 

- Home... We're going home...

His unit, at first confused then surprised at the prospect of returning to the ancestral lands, quietly started helping the civilians to climb 
on top of their self-propelled howitzers. After 10 minutes, they finally started moving West towards Leuşeni, Anatoly being the last who climbed 
the leading 'Gvozdika' taking a last look at the remnants of Kishinev. 

- We're going home...

As the unit finally got out of the outskirts of the former capital of the Moldavian SSR, one could ask, what happened to this world? What madness 
caused the leaders to fail in maintaining the fragile peace between both sides of the Iron Curtain?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

No one would've believed that during the mid-1988, the world would've been bathed in nuclear fire. The fear of nuclear war had mostly vanished
with the various accords between the US and Soviet Union regarding the downsizing of the nuclear missiles arsenals. The overzealousness of the 
Soviet officers in command of the largest supply of nuclear armament, combined with the faulty electronics of their spy sattelites, would ensure 
that the devastating prospect of a mutual assured destruction would be fulfilled.

This breed of officers, the ones that would accomplish everything the party would order them to do, paled in comparison to the old breed, the ones
like Lieutenant Colonel Stanislav Petrov. The ones that knew when an unexpected alert was a faulty alert and saved the world from the brink back in
1983.

The change in officers, was brought by one dictator who didn't wanted to step down from his throne. This man, was Nicolae Ceausescu, the supreme 
leader of Socialist Republic of Romania. One of the few stalinist states in the entire world, the politics of this little country were against
the agressive diplomacy led by the Politburo of the Soviet Union.

To the surprise of everyone, the dictator announced that the Socialist Republic of Romania would not join it's brethren in the struggle against NATO.
During the early summoned XIV Congress of the year 1987, Ceaușescu declared that the Romanian People's Army would be on high alert and quell the increasing
dissent around the country.

With the Braşov rebellion and Timișoara protests of '87 ending in massacres, and with Ceaușescu condemning the 'uprising' as an act of foreign intervention
against his refusal of stepping down from the leadership of the little country, citizens started to rally in the cities around Romania and to take over
official buildings in an act of revolt. The majority of the soldiers form the army that were sent to arrest the so called 'fascists', joined the rebellion, 
with a small part still loyal to Ceaușescu, trying in vain to recapture and arrest the dissenting elements of the population.

As of December 24th, the country was in a state of civil war. The dreaded 'Securitate' officers, in an effort to contain this uprising, started executing 
people on the streets and in houses. This broke the camel's back, as it brought the full anger of the newly reformed Free Romanian Armed Forces. 
Elements of the 1st Mechanized Division, opened fire on the 'Securitate' officers, and all hell broke loose.

Die-hard members of the Communist Party of Romania along with the loyalists tried in vain to resist this new development. The executions brought every 
single man and woman on the streets demanding the head of Ceaușescu, and the organization of fair and democratic elections. Every civilian that could've 
helped, joined the soldiers in the fight for the capital. From the young to the elders, from the unskilled to the skilled, from the unworthy to the worthy.
Overnight, the whole population of Bucharest rose.

Loyalist elements tried to form blockades and to deny access to the Central Committee of PCR [Romanian Communist Party], where most of the die-hard party 
members were holed up, only to be surprised by the arrival of armored units in front of the headquarters. The tanks of the 57th Armored Division, 
started rolling down the boulevards of Bucharest en-masse, routing the Loyalists crushing any hope of resistance against the revolution.

As the capital of Romania was secured, and with the loyalists on the run, a new situation was developing 79km away from Bucharest, that will change 
the course of this country, and of the world.

On the morning of December 30th, Ceaușescu and his wife Elena, were arrested in Târgoviște, while trying to escape the city with a helicopter.

This drastic event, was possible due to the mutiny of the loyalist 2nd Mechanized Division after they learnt of their families demise at the hands of the
'Securitate' officers. In a desperate attempt to avenge their deaths, one company rammed the gates of the 01417 military installation with the MLI-84 IFVs, 
killed almost all the 'Securitate' officers, and by pure luck, missed the departure of the couple by seconds.

After arriving at the Dâmbovița Court, and climbing in the awaiting Dauphin SA-365, Ceaușescu was one step from escaping the wrath of the mutineers. 
But fate decided otherwise. An SPAA unit part the 2nd Mechanized Division, received orders to shoot down the helicopter if it tries to leave the city. 
The pilot, fearing for his life and ignoring Ceaușescu's cries, complied to the request of the commander of the SPAA unit and landed. 
The couple was quickly arrested and sent to Bucharest in the late hours of that day.

During the early hours of the next day, December 31st, the New Year's Eve, the couple was brought to the Palace of Justice in Bucharest to 
receive their sentence. In an only 60 minute trial, they were condemned to be executed for their crimes against the people of Romania.
The whole country would see this execution on live TV.

Before he was shot, uttered these final words:

"Trăiască Republica Socialistă România Liberă și Independentă! Moarte trădătorilor! Istoria mă va răzbuna!"

in English, the translation being the following:

"Long Live the Free and Independent Socialist Republic of Romania! Death to the Traitors! History will avenge me!"

As the brief Romanian civil war came to an end, the fate decided to turn the whole upside down. The Soviet High Command saw the Romanian Revolution 
as an imminent danger to their rear supply areas. With the new government in power, and with a strong anti-communist sentiment, the Politburo 
demanded that the former Pact member to be included in the targeted countries in case of a nuclear war.

NATO, after a brief moment of confusion, quickly established a new communication line to this anti-communist government, and removed it from 
the targeted countries. As a goodwill gesture, the NATO European command sent two batteries of MIM-104 Patriot to bolster the defence of the newly
self-liberated country. One was deployed in the area of Northern Moldova, near Roman, the 2nd one being deployed near the city of Braila, 
between Moldova and Dobrogea.

Mid-1988, the nuclear rain would destroy 8 major cities : Iasi, Constanta, Craiova, Brasov, Sibiu, Campulung, Oradea, Timisoara and the capital, Bucharest.
Small cruise missiles were to destroy most of the military installations along the Prut river and some of the airbases all across the country. Fortunately 
for the surviving armed forces, most of these cruise missiles were safely intercepted.

In the wake of the nuclear exchange, in the neighbouring Moldova, almost the entire army mutinied and in a race for their survival, they took almost 
all their equipment and made a daring dash towards the Prut river, before the surviving Soviet forces realized what was happening in their midst. 
They would not hesitate to turn their weapons against the former allies.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The unit moved slowly on R33, the main artery between Kishinev and Leuşeni. The little group of self-propelled howitzers gradually transformed 
into a convoy of 50 various vehicles, ranging from the little Trabant cars to the PAZ buses to the ZIL trucks, all in all almost 1000 souls, 
held together by this very group of men. Men...

Anatoly scoffed. They were still boys. Even the crewmen from Molot-3. He was much more older than them. But that didn't matter at this point. 
They were scared, and they needed someone to lead them.

Right now, they were stopped in the village of Bujor. The folks here didn't knew about the strike on Kishinev. These poor old farmers didn't 
even had radios. Sergiu tried to convince them to evacuate as soon as possible. But no dice. Stubborn as mules.

Oleg was trying to fill a canister with water from the fountain near the road. He then took a cup from the edge of the fountain, filled it 
with water and tried to give it to the shy child that still held on to his mother's leg. If it weren't for the situation they were in, 
that could've passed as amusing and very cute.

Dima however didn't felt right. Something was coming. He felt it in his bones. Something very dangerous. He looked to his left, towards the 
small hill nearby. He could hear it. The faint sound of helicopters. He looked to his right, towards the commander.

Without a word, Anatoly felt it too. The commanded nodded, and as the driver hurried to the lead 'Gvozdika', he yelled:

- All mount up, we have to move, now! All the civilians back into the cars, back into the buses and trucks! Now!

After what it felt like ages, the convoy started moving again towards Leuşeni. This wasn't good. How could've they find out so fast? 
The radios weren't working. They were fried. At least the civilian ones. The military ones only received static. And the transmission 
tower where the regimental command was stationed? Melted by that blasted nuke.

The next turn they took, they were greeted by a sight they would never forget. Two Mi-24s, flying low and fast, were headed towards 
the crossing point. Their intent, obvious. They were going to destroy the bridge.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Iaroslav Pascal didn't had a good day. It all started with the lack of communications from the regiment. Then the commissar disappeared 
without a trace. That would've not been something bad, had the nuclear alarm kept quiet. But it didn't. It woke up everyone in the village.

Now, he, a disgruntled commander on the single mobile SAM system that was stationed in Leuşeni, the '9K35 Strela-10' he affectionately 
called 'Misha', had to contact whatever higher commander on the battle net he could find. There was only one problem though.

There wasn't anyone on it. Only static. That only made him even angrier. What in the bloody hell was happening? Did the communications 
relay finally gave up from all the Soviet Anthems the army was broadcasting on it? It couldn't be. The engineers from his regiment just 
repaired it a day ago.

And the commissar... That slimy bastard... Where the fuck was he? Did he really just took off without everyone else knowing?

He looked out the window. The only things he could see were his precious 'Misha', the old and rusting Ural munitions truck generously 
donated by the Soviet Army, and a couple of bored and yawning border guards who were just sitting on their arses.

The commander angrily dropped the handset loudly on the table, and stormed out the door, into the barracks yard. As he approached the 
lazy border guards, he could tell that something was off. They were all confused, looking towards North-East.

Then he heard it. A distant sound coming from the hill nearby. The one to the North-East, near Bujor. Something was coming, the sound 
growing louder and lowder. And it was approaching the village very quickly.

As he turned to the guards, out of nowhere, two heavily armoured Mi-24s flew over the barracks yard, passing over the village. 
He wondered what were they doing here. There wasn't an airfield nearby from his knowledge. Then as an answer, they started firing at the bridge.

Iaroslav hit the dirt, the border guards doing the same, shocked.        

- What the fuck are they doing, sir? one of the guards yelled.
- I don't know but we got to stop them! yelled back Iaroslav.

He rose from the dirt, ran and climbed the '9K35 Strela-10' that he affectionately called 'Misha' and shouted towards his crewmen.

- Mount up! We need to stop this madness!
- But sir? We don't have any missiles loaded! both the gunner and loader cried.
- I don't fucking care, we're going in! Bogdan! he yelled towards the still scared borderguard. Take the munitions truck and follow us to the bridge!

The wide-eyed Bogdan looked back towards Iaroslav as if he grew horns on his head. The border guard rose from the dusty ground and tried to pry 
open the truck's door. It wouldn't budge. The bloody door was rusted. As he tried again, he remembered. The commissar had specifically 
told him to not touch the Ural. But why? As he went around it, curiosity peaking, he pulled up the tarp.

- The munitions, Iaroslav! They're not here! a panicked Bogdan shouted.

The commander, on top the already rumbling 'Misha', couldn't believe it. What the fuck happened to the ammunition? Did the commissar take it to another unit?

- What do you mean they're not there? the perplexed commander yelled back.

- They're not here, sir! Not even the medical supplies. It's all gone!

This had to be a joke, someone was pulling a prank on his unit. It had to be a prank. There was no way this was happening to him.

As the prospect of being literally pants-down against the metal birds was being drilled into his head, he sighed.

- If that's the way I'll be going out, so be it, he whispered. Driver! To the crossing! Full speed! shouted a now resigned Iaroslav, as the 
two Hinds were firing on the crossing unopposed, unaware of the now mobile anti-air vehicle moving towards the bridge.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
